Prevent linkability from responding to migration (#2969)
quicwg/base-drafts: draft-ietf-quic-transport.md

At any time, endpoints MAY change the Destination Connection ID they send to a
value that has not been used on another path.

An endpoint MUST use a new connection ID if it initiates connection migration as
described in {{initiating-migration}}.  An endpoint MUST use a new

> connection ID in response to a connection migration if the packet that initiates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
connection ID in response to a change in peer IP or port if the first packet arriving from the new IP and port
```

(and delete the word migration on the next line)

migration uses a different connection ID to packets received on any previous

> path.

Reviewer 2: I wonder if using the term "initiate a connection migration" is correct, as to me it seems to imply what [section 9.2](https://quicwg.org/base-drafts/draft-ietf-quic-transport.html#rfc.section.9.2) talks, but not [path probing (section 9.1)](https://quicwg.org/base-drafts/draft-ietf-quic-transport.html#rfc.section.9.1).

Shouldn't we better state that, an endpoint MUST use a new connection ID when responding to a packet on a new path, using a new connection ID?

Reviewer 3: Is it feasible to remember all past CID's?

Author: Maybe, but you are right, this could be better.  I just don't know how to word that without turning the sentence into an essay.  Suggestions sought.

Reviewer 3: The server must have a short list if issued CID's. It suffice that the CID is in that list, and that the client does not reuse old CID's - as is already the case. So something like 

```
An endpoint MUST use a new
connection ID in response to a connection migration that uses a new connection ID from the list of issued connection ID's.```

At any time, endpoints MAY change the Destination Connection ID they send to a
value that has not been used on another path.

An endpoint MUST use a new connection ID if it initiates connection migration as

> described in {{initiating-migration}}.  An endpoint MUST use a new connection ID

Reviewer 2: Maybe add something like: "or when probing a new path ({{#probing}})"?

in response to a change in the address of a peer if the packet with the new peer
address uses an active connection ID that has not been previously used by the

> peer.

Reviewer 2: What should the responding endpoint do, when it does not have any unused Connection IDs?

I think we have at least four options, but neither of them seem to be very good: a) respond using a Connection ID already in use, b) error-close the connection (on the active path), c) respond with a stateless reset, d) drop the packet.

Option _a_ has the privacy concern. I do not think that option _b_ or _c_ is viable, as it creates an attack vector (a middlebox might race the packet that initiates the migration from a different source address. If the spoofed packet reaches the server before the legitimate one, the connection might get dropped as the server might have used all the spare connection IDs for responding to the spoofed packets). Option _d_ seems a bit odd.

Relatedly, Section 9.1 (Probing a New Path) states quote: _An endpoint that uses a new local address needs to ensure that at least one new connection ID is available at the peer. That can be achieved by including a NEW_CONNECTION_ID frame in the probe._ I think that this is a good advice and that we might want to promote the sentences to here, so that it would cover both path probing and immediate connection migration.

Author: Yeah, option *d* is the only viable option I can see.  I will add text to that effect.

Author: I added a recommendation to send NEW_CONNECTION_ID when migrating.  It's a little janky, because you have to include the frame in every packet to be effective.  Unless you like the wonderful cascading loss that results from your peer being forced to drop all your packets because the golden one didn't get through.  Of course, then you need to worry about how to manage that retransmission logic...

congestion state (see {{migration-cc}}), so the port SHOULD only be changed
infrequently.

An endpoint that exhausts available connection IDs cannot migrate.  Similarly,

> an endpoint is unable to respond to probes or an attempt by its peer to migrate

Reviewer 4: This sentence parses oddly for me, I assume it's in the context of the previous sentence, but maybe something like
```
An endpoint that exhausts available connection IDs cannot probe new paths or initiate 
migration, nor can it respond to probes or attempts by its peer to migrate.
```
and replace both sentences.
(Not providing that as a suggested change since it'll mess up the wrapping, sorry!)

or probe.  To ensure that migration is possible and packets sent on different
paths cannot be correlated, endpoints SHOULD provide new connection IDs before

> peers migrate.  If a peer might have exhausted available connection IDs, a

Reviewer 4: Do we want to reference the other section that talks about SHOULD provide a new CID for every one that gets retired, etc.? I think that's `{{issue-cid}}`.

Specifically the below paragraph: 
```
An endpoint SHOULD supply a new connection ID when it receives a packet with a
previously unused connection ID or when the peer retires one, unless providing
the new connection ID would exceed the peer's limit.  An endpoint MAY limit the
frequency or the total number of connection IDs issued for each connection to
avoid the risk of running out of connection IDs; see {{reset-token}}.
```

```suggestion
peers migrate ({{issue-cid}}).  If a peer might have exhausted available connection IDs, a
```

If that doesn't mess up the spacing.
